 Bayern Munich’s Bundesliga title hopes all but evaporated after a 2-0 home loss to Borussia Dortmund left them 13 points behind the leaders, Bayer Leverkusen, with seven games remaining. Bayern, winners of the previous 11 league crowns, were inefficient in attack and their first shot on goal came late in the second half, with the usually deadly striker Harry Kane having earlier missed their best chances. For Dortmund, it was a first league win in Munich in 10 years, with the Ruhr valley club tightening their hold on fourth place that leads to next season’s Champions League group stage. When Bayern’s coach, Thomas Tuchel, was asked if the title race was over, he replied: “Obviously, yes. After today’s game there is no more need to count points. How many is it now? Congratulations to Leverkusen. “We are very disappointed because we felt we did not bring the necessary passion to win the game. It was too little from us when it came to the basics.” Dortmund scored with their first chance in the 10th minute after a mistake by Thomas Müller and a superb through ball for Karim Adeyemi from Julian Brandt. Adeyemi, battling for a spot in hosts Germany’s Euro 2024 squad, completed the quick break with a fine finish to beat the Bayern goalkeeper Sven Ulreich. Ulreich, stepping in for the injured Manuel Neuer, repeatedly came to the rescue in the second half but was beaten in the 83rd minute by Julian Ryerson’s powerful low drive. Bayern came close through Kane, who saw a header sail narrowly wide and another shot stopped by the centre-back Mats Hummels. With disappointed Bayern fans leaving the stadium before the end, the England striker – the league’s record signing at €100m – had the ball in the net in the 89th minute only for his header to be disallowed for offside. Bayern, who face Arsenal in the Champions League quarter-finals in April, stay on 60 points. Dortmund are fourth with 53 points, three ahead of RB Leipzig who were held 0-0 by lowly Mainz. Leverkusen are on 73 points after their 2-1 comeback victory against Hoffenheim, with late goals from Robert Andrich and Patrik Schick ensuring Xabi Alonso’s side extended their remarkable unbeaten run in all competitions this season to 39 matches. Sign up to Football Daily Kick off your evenings with the Guardian's take on the world of football after newsletter promotion  Andy Brassell is away and will return next week